README.md, before:

# NVCD NeoVim Chad (as in NvChad) for Docker

```
<< SCREENCAST COMING SOON! >>
```

NeoVim is changing very fast, but most distros ship with old versions of 
neovim. For example, to check the most current release:

```
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/rails/rails/releases | 
jq '.[0,1,2,3]|{ URL: .html_url, TAG: .tag_name, DATE: .published_at }'
```

Yet `apt show neovim` and you'll see Ubuntu 22.04 ships with neovim 0.61

Easily install / reinstall most recent stable neovim inside
a Docker container that's fully integrated with your system
(clipboard, permissions, file access)

However you use neovim, permissions and filenames should work
as if it's not running inside a container

```
sudo nvcd /etc/passwd
nvcd foo bar baz "crazy filename with spaces"
nvcd "Any Unicode Filenames 当然汉语也行"
cd ~/Dev/BestThingEver && nvcd
```

Your command line operations and permissions should
come out exactly the same as if you were not using
a Docker container.

### Configuration Experiments

## INSTALL

Ubuntu:
```
sudo apt install fzf curl git docker.io 
sudo usermod -a -G docker $(id -un)
git clone https://github.com/erwin/nvcd.git
cd nvcd
./nvcd --build
```

Fedora:
```
sudo dnf install fzf docker
sudo usermod -a -G docker $(id -un)
sudo systemctl restart docker

```

CentOS:
```
sudo yum install curl git docker
sudo groupadd -r docker
sudo systemctl restart docker
sudo usermod -a -G docker $(id -un)
# requires SELINUX=disabled or selinux security policy
git clone github.com/erwin/nvcd
cd nvcd
./nvcd --build
```

Fedora:

Does installing `fonts-firacode` help?

### Alternate Configs

https://geekrepos.com/topics/vim-configuration
https://neovimcraft.com/

## REQUIREMENTS

#### Complete UTF-8 Terminal

https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/ucs/examples/UTF-8-demo.txt

#### Recentish Docker

Anything Ubuntu 18.04 or later should work fine.
The docker.io package on Ubuntu 14.04 doesn't work
because the docker `--build-arg` 

#### Modernish Terminal

If you're using a current distro

https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/ttf-symbola




#### Icons in your Terminal Font

The terminal where `nvcd` is running may be connected
via `ssh`, and the exact way to configure fonts for each
terminal is a little bit different.

If you don't already have a font with icons installed,
the Nerd Fonts are a good place to get started. "Nerd Font Complete Mono Windows Compatible"

#### Nice to have: Ligatures

#### Nice to have: True Color

## FAQ

### What do I do about `CTRL+Z` hanging?

CTRL+Z invokes NeoVim's `:suspend` function
You can disable this with:

```
noremap <c-z> <nop>
```

Normally running `:suspend` in NeoVim uses to OS to send `-SIGSTOP` to the process
and then when your shell foregrounds NeoVim, your OS sends `-SIGCONT` (continue)
Resume the process.

Docker also as a `docker pause` and `docker unpause`, but these do not fix our
shell integration problem.

I haven't figured out how to make shell job control work across the Docker container boundary.

Maybe starting one instance on first launch and using `docker exec` to connect
would be faster and provide more of a host shell job control possability


### BUGS/ISSUES

* Once you neovim is open, to access files in a DIFFERENT directory,
  for example `:e ~/.profile` or `:e /etc/passwd` won't work direclty.
  The "host" os / is available under `/mnt`, so you could do:
  `:e /mnt/etc/passwd` and `:e /mnt/home/<name>/.profile`.
  Files under the current folder will all work normally, and all file
  paths when opening with `nvcd` from the shell will be auto translated.
  We could mount the host's / to the container, but I think there are
  many instances where this would create more confusion due to the 
  folders excluded by bind mounts
* CTRL+Z into background hangs - Disable Ctrl+z, use:
  `vim.cmd('nnoremap <c-z> <nop>')`
* How to make Neovim inside a Docker container compatible with `nvr` (NeoVim Remote)
* Warning to remove directories when first starting
  (if I don't create those directories, we get an even uglier warning)

### Useful Resources

* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53285801/x11-authentication-error-when-run-as-a-docker-container
* https://stackoverflow.com/a/55763212/6310966
* http://wiki.ros.org/docker/Tutorials/GUI
* https://riptutorial.com/docker/example/21831/running-gui-apps-in-a-linux-container
* https://grafana.s.voidlinux.org/d/cLraC-XMk/mirrors-status

Commit message:

Begin a new direction for nvcd...
Instead of just a general bootstrapping in docker shellscript
let's make this a really fast way to run a fully configured
neovim ide

README.md, after:

# NVCD NeoVim Chad (as in NvChad) for Docker

## Keep Learning
Even if you're a very experienced vim user, neovim is different.
To learn how to setup your own very functional neovim configuration
line by line, you should spend 75 minutes watching this screencast:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vdn_pKJUda8

Which is in turn based on the much longer NeoVim from Scratch video series:

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhoH5vyxr6Qq41NFL4GvhFp-WLd5xzIzZ

```
<< SCREENCAST COMING SOON! >>
```

NeoVim is changing very fast, but most distros ship with old versions of 
neovim. For example, to check the most current release:

```
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/rails/rails/releases | 
jq '.[0,1,2,3]|{ URL: .html_url, TAG: .tag_name, DATE: .published_at }'
```

Yet `apt show neovim` and you'll see Ubuntu 22.04 ships with neovim 0.61

Easily install / reinstall most recent stable neovim inside
a Docker container that's fully integrated with your system
(clipboard, permissions, file access)

However you use neovim, permissions and filenames should work
as if it's not running inside a container

```
sudo nvcd /etc/passwd
nvcd foo bar baz "crazy filename with spaces"
nvcd "Any Unicode Filenames 当然汉语也行"
cd ~/Dev/BestThingEver && nvcd
```

Your command line operations and permissions should
come out exactly the same as if you were not using
a Docker container.

### Configuration Experiments

## INSTALL

Ubuntu:
```
sudo apt install fzf curl git docker.io 
sudo usermod -a -G docker $(id -un)
git clone https://github.com/erwin/nvcd.git
cd nvcd
./nvcd --build
```

Fedora:
```
sudo dnf install fzf docker
sudo usermod -a -G docker $(id -un)
sudo systemctl restart docker

```

CentOS:
```
sudo yum install curl git docker
sudo groupadd -r docker
sudo systemctl restart docker
sudo usermod -a -G docker $(id -un)
# requires SELINUX=disabled or selinux security policy
git clone github.com/erwin/nvcd
cd nvcd
./nvcd --build
```

Fedora:

Does installing `fonts-firacode` help?

### Alternate Configs

https://geekrepos.com/topics/vim-configuration
https://neovimcraft.com/

## REQUIREMENTS

#### Complete UTF-8 Terminal

https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/ucs/examples/UTF-8-demo.txt

#### Recentish Docker

Anything Ubuntu 18.04 or later should work fine.
The docker.io package on Ubuntu 14.04 doesn't work
because the docker `--build-arg` 

#### Modernish Terminal

If you're using a current distro

https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/ttf-symbola




#### Icons in your Terminal Font

The terminal where `nvcd` is running may be connected
via `ssh`, and the exact way to configure fonts for each
terminal is a little bit different.

If you don't already have a font with icons installed,
the Nerd Fonts are a good place to get started. "Nerd Font Complete Mono Windows Compatible"

#### Nice to have: Ligatures

#### Nice to have: True Color

## FAQ

### What do I do about `CTRL+Z` hanging?

CTRL+Z invokes NeoVim's `:suspend` function
You can disable this with:

```
noremap <c-z> <nop>
```

Normally running `:suspend` in NeoVim uses to OS to send `-SIGSTOP` to the process
and then when your shell foregrounds NeoVim, your OS sends `-SIGCONT` (continue)
Resume the process.

Docker also as a `docker pause` and `docker unpause`, but these do not fix our
shell integration problem.

I haven't figured out how to make shell job control work across the Docker container boundary.

Maybe starting one instance on first launch and using `docker exec` to connect
would be faster and provide more of a host shell job control possability


### BUGS/ISSUES

* Once you neovim is open, to access files in a DIFFERENT directory,
  for example `:e ~/.profile` or `:e /etc/passwd` won't work direclty.
  The "host" os / is available under `/mnt`, so you could do:
  `:e /mnt/etc/passwd` and `:e /mnt/home/<name>/.profile`.
  Files under the current folder will all work normally, and all file
  paths when opening with `nvcd` from the shell will be auto translated.
  We could mount the host's / to the container, but I think there are
  many instances where this would create more confusion due to the 
  folders excluded by bind mounts
* CTRL+Z into background hangs - Disable Ctrl+z, use:
  `vim.cmd('nnoremap <c-z> <nop>')`
* How to make Neovim inside a Docker container compatible with `nvr` (NeoVim Remote)
* Warning to remove directories when first starting
  (if I don't create those directories, we get an even uglier warning)

### Useful Resources

* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53285801/x11-authentication-error-when-run-as-a-docker-container
* https://stackoverflow.com/a/55763212/6310966
* http://wiki.ros.org/docker/Tutorials/GUI
* https://riptutorial.com/docker/example/21831/running-gui-apps-in-a-linux-container
* https://grafana.s.voidlinux.org/d/cLraC-XMk/mirrors-status
